---
title: 2s to 25
draft: false
tags:
---
## Rules

This game uses a standard set of playing cards. It is a betting game, there are 3 rounds of betting. The aim of the game is for the total value of the cards in your hand to be as close to 25 as possible. Going over 25 is permissible, it is determined by absolute value from 25. 

Numbered cards count as the value shown on the card, royals count as 10 and Aces count as 1 or 11.

One player is the dealer and shuffles the cards. The player 2 positions to the dealer's left puts in the agreed value for the Big Blind and the player immediately to the dealer's left puts in the agreed value for the Small Blind.

Starting from the dealer's left and continuing onwards, each player elects out loud whether they ask for one or two cards. Other versions of the game can be played where people ask for more cards, and the total is higher. Once every player has declared how many cards they are drawing, the dealer deals the appropriate number of cards to each player.

Thus begins the first round of betting, starting from the Big Blind, they can either raise, check or fold. The betting rules are similar to Poker, to be in the hand someone must equal the highest amount bet or fold and lose any money that they have already committed to the pot.

Once this round of betting has concluded, the dealer draws the top card from the deck and places it face up in the middle of the table where everyone can see it. 

All cards that match the suit of the card that has been drawn have their value doubled. So for example, if a player has the 4 of clubs and the 7 of hearts, their total at the beginning was 11. However, the face up card is a heart, therefore the value of the 7 is doubled (this is mandatory), therefore their total is now 4 + 14 = 18.

Another round of betting ensues after the face up card has been drawn.

After this round of betting has concluded, the players again all in turn, starting from the dealer's left, elect whether they draw 1 or 2 cards. After everyone has declared how many cards they are drawing, the dealer deals the appropriate number of cards to everyone.

The final round of betting ensues here.

Once the final round of betting is concluded, all players who are still 'in' reveal their cards. The person whose value is closest to 25 wins. If there is a tie, the player who is below 25 wins. If two players have the exact same value, then it is the player who has the highest number of cards that much the suit of the face up card.

If the players are tied in this fact, it is the player who has the singular card with the highest value. If they have an ace and declared the Ace as a one to get to the winning score, the Ace counts as a 1 for this purpose.

If they tie here, it is the person who has the highest value card that is also a member of the face up suit.

If both players have no cards that are members of the face up suit, a new face up suit is drawn and the player that has the card with the highest value of this new face up suit wins. Again, if an Ace had been declared as a 1 in order to win the game initially, the Ace still counts as 1. 

This drawing process is repeated until a winner is decided.