
- There is a massive, but brief crack in the material plane - a huge flash across the sky
- This has come from a group called The Order of the Ebon Gate who are trying to summon huge demons/devils/undead in order to take over the world.
- This is broadly known by the kingdoms of [[Otrana]] and [[Espax]]. Leadership there is biding it's time, waiting to see if these cultists are successful, they think that they will be able to harness the power of these demons and conquer the other kingdom. Whichever one the PC's go to (Otrana), that is the kingdom that is trying to do that, the other kingdom is unaware. Espax have problems of their own with a rebellion from a morally questionable libertarian rebel group, seem like freedom fighters. The government of this one is very controlling, and the rebels represent the antithesis of this. Players could side with these rebels or players could side with the government or try and find a compromise.
- Aetharian split from Espax in a relatively peaceful split around 100 years ago, peace has been maintained by the great wizards of that region who offer their services to Espax government officials in return for effective self-determination. Of course there are some wizards who disagree with that and think they should break away from Espax entirely, but a an alliance and good shipping would need to be worked out at least with Kagarum and potentially with Otrana to do that. However, making an alliance with Espax's great rival is an incredibly risky geo-political move, so the Aetharian wizards are divided on this. They don't like Espax because they can be controlling and were often heavy handed in their attitude to magical experimentation.
- There was a powerful wizarding group, formed soon after the creation of the world that created 8 magical gems, whose power was harnessed by Adamantine Sceptres. The gems were imperfect and took on a will of their own, aiming to darken the hearts of those who used them without these sceptres in place - Kuo Toa have got their hands on one of these gems Gems - Conjuration gem - so they can teleport in and out of the Underdark, they found a way to get up to the island that the players found themselves shipwrecked on.
- The players can use these to leave the island - they can then start discovering what's going on - cultists are part of these Kuo Toa, or they hear about the Gems from somewhere and try and steal it from the players.
- 